{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red107\green0\blue109;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21620\viewh18720\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs60 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 PREPARATIONS\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \'a0\
-
\b DSLR
\b0 \'a0
\b or compact camera 
\b0 \'a0(DSLR is a better for this because the lens has some more options, such as zoom, focus control...)\
-
\b Tripod
\b0 \'a0(this gadget is not really necessary, but it adds stabilization for more professional results)\
-
\b Editing software
\b0 \'a0(Adobe Premiere Pro or After Effects)\
\'a0\
Before you start with the shooting, we recommend you to decide what method want to use, either the "Fixed Point Method" or the "Imaginary Line Method". There is a third method that is more experimental and not so common, we'll call it "Stop Motion Method".\
So, what is the difference? It\'92s basically that in the first method, the camera maintains a point of reference from the beginning to the end at the same position. In the second one the camera maintains its position by imagining a straight line and mainlining it with the tripod. We'll explain which method is more convenient in which situation and show some examples of each.\
\'a0\
\'a0\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs60 \cf2 FIXED POINT\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \'a0\
The Fixed point method is easier when you are shooting but requires more editing. It is the best for moving in circles or other shapes, as long as you don't lose the point of reference. You can also change the point of reference but we recommend to always follow the same one, because this is the only way to stabilize the whole video later. It gives a more static result but it allows you to center the attention of the viewer in your subject. This is a better solution if you want to make a video about a specific monument, for example, and you want to center the viewers attention to it. The editing part of the process requires a certain skill and some time, depending also on the quality of the photographs.\
In the video you can see some examples of how it looks.\
\
\
In the following tutorial we show how to stabilize the Hyperlapse using the camera stabilization in Adobe After Effects. This gives you the option to stabilize position only or position and rotation. For the last one, you'll need an additional point of reference.\
You can also try to stabilize the Hyperlapse with the warp stabilizer in Adobe After Effects or Premiere Pro. This method is fully automatic and requires no skills.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs60 \cf2 IMAGINARY LINE\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 The Imaginary line method changes in the way you move, you'll need to pay more attention on where you place the tripod and in which direction you shoot. It\'92s more complex to shoot but requires less skill on the editing side. Because of that, we recommend to search for some lines that can help you, like some kind of tile arrangement on the ground that you can use as reference.\
\'a0\
It is really easy to stabilize a hyperlapse shot this way, because you can always use the warp stabilizer in Adobe After Effects or in Adobe Premiere Pro and it does the hard work for you.\
\'a0\
Here we show some examples for this method:\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs60 \cf2 \cb3 STOP MOTION\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 This method consists on moving the camera and the point of reference at the same time. This point of reference can be a person that moves with a music track or an object that you move for each shot. It may seem confusing at first but gives a really cool result.\cb1 \
\cb3 The greatest example is the viral video named "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ToPh26T6bgk"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Dream Music Part II}}" and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRAjnYR0O3M&feature=youtu.be"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Behind the Scenes}}\'a0video has a really good explanation of this example.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 We hope this tutorial was helpful for you.\cb1 \
\cb3 If you don't want to miss any of our videos or tutorials follow us on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/symbolicfilms"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Facebook}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://twitter.com/FilmsSymbolic"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Twitter }}and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://instagram.com/symbolicfilms"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Instagram.}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
}